Document the use of limited S3 prefixes via IAM for the Quilt Catalog (#3312)
quiltdata/quilt: docs/advanced-features/s3-prefix-permissions.md

> # Restrict Catalog users to S3 bucket prefixes

Author: ```suggestion
# Restrict users to S3 bucket prefixes
```

It is possible to use custom roles and policies in the Quilt Catalog in order
to limit access to specific folders in an S3 bucket. Nevertheless,
this approach has limitations and is therefore not recommended for
high-security data where not just the contents _but the names of files and

> folders are sensitive_.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
folders are sensitive_.
```

> folders are sensitive_.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
folders are sensitive_.
```

## Pre-requisites

* IAM policies and roles (see below for an example)

* Quilt Catalog Admin status

* For cross-account roles, you must have a recent version of the Quilt
Stack (1-Feb-2023 or later) so that the Quilt registry has sufficient permissions
to assume cross-account roles on behalf or users

> * Ask your Quilt Account Manager to **enable "secure search"** for your stack

Author: ```suggestion
* Ask your Quilt Account Manager to **enable "prefix-aware search"** for your stack
```

> in order for search to hide the objects from unauthorized users in the search results.

Author: Good catch. Will wordsmith.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Limitations and workarounds

* Roles for users of the Quilt Catalog's Bucket tab must have
**full ListBucket permissions**, whether or not they are allowed to access all
folders and objects. Catalog users who click on a prefix or object that they
are not permitted to access will see _Access Denied_.
  * Alternatively, you can [hide the Bucket tab completely](../catalog/Admin.md#show-and-hide-features-in-the-quilt-catalog)
  and leave users to the Package tab.

  > IAM is not designed as a filter for browsing S3.
  ListBucket will return a 403 for the root of bucket
  if users do not have full permissions (currently incompatible with the Quilt Catalog)

* Similar to prefixes (above), Quilt Packages that reference prefixes that users
cannot access via IAM will reveal package-relative file names and object-level
_Quilt_ metadata, but will not reveal S3 object metadata and will not reveal
object contents.  Clicking on a package entry in the Catalog that has a physical
key that the user is not allowed to access will display _Access Denied_.

> * Secure search performs a head request on every object result; this may slow

Author: ``` suggestion
* Prefix-aware search performs a head request on every object result; this may slow
```

search performance in the Catalog

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Requirements and recommendations

* After updating your Quilt stack **you must rename, remove, or add a Quilt managed role**

> in order to trigger a policy update in the Quilt Stack.

Reviewer: 1. I'm not sure it's clear that it's needed only when updating from pre-01 Feb stack
2. it's for unmanaged roles
3. it's not specific for S3 prefixes
4. given it's needed only for cross-acount roles and we have complaint only from single customer, I'd let them know directly and omit this, rather than leave this information here indefinitely

Author: The goal here is our users never fail if they only have docs and not us. Let me try to reorganize this so the point can be ignored when appropriate (the common case).

> * Manage all Quilt Catalog roles and policies for prefixes [with the Quilt Catalog Admin Panel](../catalog/Admin.md#users-and-roles)

Reviewer: Why it's Quilt *Catalog* roles? (they can be used through quilt3 login)
Something like "DO NOT touch managed Quilt roles in policies in IAM" seems more clear.
It doesn't seem specific to S3 prefixes.

Author: Good point.

* Provided that you use roles created in the Quilt Catalog Admin Panel
**you do not need to and should not** insert a trust relationship into your

> roles by hand.

Reviewer: Not specific to S3 prefixes.
Seems like implication of the previous item.

Author: Right but the fact that we actually mention trust policies elsewhere in the docs confuses this issue. I'd rather leave this in. Removing the other mention of trust policies is also an option.

Author: It is also better to be explicit. The previous doesn't actually say anything about trust policies, even if its implied to people who understand the system.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

# Restrict access by S3 bucket prefix

> It is possible to use custom roles and policies in the Quilt Catalog in order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to use custom roles and policies in the Quilt Catalog
```

to limit access to specific folders in an S3 bucket. Nevertheless,
this approach has limitations and is therefore not recommended for
high-security data where not just the contents _but the names of files and
folders are sensitive_.

## Pre-requisites

* IAM policies and roles (see below for an example)

* Quilt Catalog Admin status

* For cross-account roles, you must have a recent version of the Quilt
Stack (1-Feb-2023 or later) so that the Quilt registry has sufficient permissions

> to assume cross-account roles on behalf or users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to assume cross-account roles on behalf of users
```

> * Ask your Quilt Account Manager to **enable "prefix-aware search"** for your stack

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ask your Quilt Account Manager **enable "prefix-aware search"** in your Cloud Formation template
```

in order for search to hide the objects from unauthorized users in the search results.

## Limitations and workarounds

* Roles for users of the Quilt Catalog's Bucket tab must have
**full ListBucket permissions**, whether or not they are allowed to access all
folders and objects. Catalog users who click on a prefix or object that they

> are not permitted to access will see _Access Denied_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are not permitted to access will see an _Access Denied_ message.
```

  * Alternatively, you can [hide the Bucket tab completely](../catalog/Admin.md#show-and-hide-features-in-the-quilt-catalog)

>   and leave users to the Package tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and leave users access to the Package tab.
```

  > IAM is not designed as a filter for browsing S3.

>   ListBucket will return a 403 for the root of bucket

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ListBucket will return a 403 error message for the root of bucket
```

  if users do not have full permissions (currently incompatible with the Quilt Catalog)

* Similar to prefixes (above), Quilt Packages that reference prefixes that users
cannot access via IAM will reveal package-relative file names and object-level

> _Quilt_ metadata, but will not reveal S3 object metadata and will not reveal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Quilt_ metadata, but will not reveal S3 object metadata nor S3
```

object contents.  Clicking on a package entry in the Catalog that has a physical

> key that the user is not allowed to access will display _Access Denied_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
key that the user is not allowed to access will display an _Access Denied_ message.
```

* Prefix-aware search performs a head request on every object result; this may slow
search performance in the Catalog

## Requirements and recommendations

* Manage all Quilt roles and policies for prefixes
[with the Quilt Catalog Admin Panel](../catalog/Admin.md#users-and-roles)

* Provided that you use roles created in the Quilt Catalog Admin Panel

> **you do not need to and should not** insert a trust relationship into your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**you do not need to, and should not,** insert a trust relationship into your
```

roles by hand.

> > In certain rare circumstances (e.g. upgrading from older stacks for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In certain rare circumstances (e.g. upgrading from an older Quilt stack for
```

cross-account role assumption) if Quilt is not working as expected
__you can rename, remove, or add a Quilt managed role__

> in order to force the Quilt Stack to update its permissions state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in order to force the Quilt stack to update its permissions state.
```

# Restricting access to specific S3 bucket prefixes

> Users will still have access to the full list of S3 objects,
packages and logical keys inside of packages.

> > No trust relationship work is needed

Reviewer: See https://github.com/quiltdata/quilt/pull/3295#discussion_r1094034720

You can isolate user access to objects stored in specific S3 directories by
defining an array of accessible prefixes in a custom IAM role or Amazon S3
bucket policy.

## Example permissions to limit access

Create a "custom" role or policy with these permissions:

> <!-- markdownlint-disable -->

Reviewer: Why do we need this?

Author: Are you referring to the json code block lable or what? Please propose a suggestion with the item removed so it's clear what we're talking about.

Reviewer: No, I missed the line above with `<!-- markdownlint-disable -->`.

> # Restricting Catalog users to S3 bucket prefixes

Author: ```suggestion
# Restrict Catalog users to S3 bucket prefixes
```

It is possible to use custom roles and policies in the Quilt Catalog in order
to limit access to specific folders in an S3 bucket. Nevertheless,
this approach has limitations and is therefore not recommended for
high-security data where not just the contents _but the names of files and
folders are sensitive_.

## Pre-requisites
* IAM policies and roles (see below for an example)
* Quilt Catalog Admin status
* For cross-account roles, you must have a recent version of the Quilt
Stack (1-Feb-2023 or later) so that the Quilt registry has sufficient permissions
to assume cross-account roles on behalf or users
* Ask your Quilt Account Manager to **enable "secure search"** for your stack

> in order for search hide the objects from unauthorized users in the search results.

Author: ```suggestion
in order for search to hide the objects from unauthorized users in the search results.
```

    ]
}
```
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->

## Using the `Condition` element

Alternatively, you can define granular permissions using the
`Condition` element and [IAM policy
string operators](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_variables.html):

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
```json
            ...
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::<BUCKET>",
            ],
            "Condition": {
                "StringLike": {
                    "s3:prefix": ["", ".quilt/*", "<PREFIX>/*"]
                },
                "StringEquals": {
                    "s3:prefix": ["", ".quilt/", "<PREFIX>/"],
                    "s3:delimiter": ["/"]
                }
            },

>             ...

Reviewer: duplicate from https://github.com/quiltdata/quilt/pull/3295#discussion_r1094045347

1. Have you tested this? AFAICT this won't work
2.  if we could come up with a policy more strict than one above and still have catalog working, why'd we want still document both?

    ]
}
```
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->

> > The `.quilt` folder is where Quilt Package Manifests are stored for all packages

Author: ```suggestion
> The `.quilt` folder is where Quilt Package Manifests are stored for all packages. Users must have
> access to this folder in order to view Packages in the Catalog.
```
